Rm/generate image list (#3)
thehyve/vulnerability-scanning: README.md

> # 🛡️ vulnerability-scanning

Reviewer: Thank you! :)

│  docker_images.env ──► Trivy / Snyk scan ──►│──► GitHub Issues
│                                             │    (HIGH / CRITICAL)
└─────────────────────────────────────────────┘
```

🔍 **`generate-image-list`** — Scans your repository for Docker image references in Compose files and Dockerfiles, and writes them to a `docker_images.env` file that is committed back to your repo. Use this when you want image discovery to be fully automated.

🔬 **`vuln-scanning`** — Reads a `docker_images.env` file, scans each image for vulnerabilities using Trivy or Snyk, and creates or updates GitHub Issues for every HIGH or CRITICAL finding. If your repository already maintains its own image list, you can use this workflow on its own without `generate-image-list`.

The workflows are designed to be used together or independently, depending on your setup.

---

## ⚙️ How it works

1. **Image discovery** (`generate-image-list` workflow)  
   `scan_docker_images.py` walks the caller's repository and finds every Docker image reference in:
   - `docker-compose.yml`, `*.yml`, `*.yaml` – lines matching `image: <ref>`
   - `Dockerfile`, `Dockerfile.*` – lines matching `FROM <ref>`

>    References that use environment-variable substitution (`${VAR}`) are skipped because they are already sourced from the `.env` file. The discovered images are written to `docker_images.env` (or a custom path) and committed back to the caller's repository.

Reviewer 2: So if we dont have an image env in our repo file but still have image VARs in the compose file, we just have to add the VARs manually to the generated docker_images.env after running the generate env workflow?

Author: jep

2. **Vulnerability scanning** (`vuln-scanning` workflow)  

>    Reads an `.env` file containing `*_IMAGE` variables (produced by step 1, or maintained manually), iterates over every image, and scans each one with either **Trivy** or **Snyk**. Results are saved as a JSON artifact.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
   Reads a `docker_images.env` file containing `*_IMAGE` variables (produced by step 1, or maintained manually), iterates over every image, and scans each one with either **Trivy** or **Snyk**. Results are saved as a JSON artifact.
```
